[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: Judging from some of the looks
on the faces in the crowd here in person.
This was challenging right?
I promised that it would be challenging,
I didn't want to let you off easy.
But actually you might kick yourself when
you realize how stupidly simple this is.
It just requires you
to train your brain to
think a little differently
about these problems.
So here's what I'm gonna do.
I'm actually gonna solve
the problem in reverse.
Cuz I find it easier to
understand when I do that.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm going
to assume that I have a getFile
function that does that magic.
And will come back and figure out
how to make it do that magic, but
I'm gonna talk about
how I use the function.
So I'm going to need to get
something back from getFile, and
that thing that I get back is a thunk.
And I'm gonna have three of them because
I'm gonna make three separate AJAX
requests.
So I'm gonna call it th1,
thunk one, is getFile, file1.
And th2 is getFile,
file2.
>> Kyle: And
th3 is getFile, file3, okay?
Now, that takes care of
making the request, but
it doesn't take care of
coordinating their responses.
So I'm going to coordinate their
responses.
>> Kyle: Using
exactly the way we know how thunks work.
What is a thunk?
It takes a callback, right?
So I'm gonna call th1 and give it
a callback which gives me some text.
And for just clarity's sake
I'm gonna call it text1.
It doesn't matter what we call it.
But I know that this callback will
be called when there is a text1
to respond to.
Does everybody agree with that?
So I can simply output it at that point.
>> Kyle: And
then I know I can call th2 and
pass in a callback.
>> Kyle: And at this point I know I can
print out the contents.
>> Kyle: And
then I know I can call
th3 with a callback.
>> Kyle: And print out the contents,
oops.
>> Kyle: And
finally print out my complete message.
>> Kyle: Okay,
now if my thunk was lazy.
Does everybody see why I would not be
making my AJAX request in parallel?
If my thunks were lazy, if it did not
make this AJAX request until that point,
it would not make that request
until after th1 had finished.
Is that a valid solution?
Yes, except for the fact that it violates
our principle of parallel requests.
It would work, but it would not fulfill
the requirements of the problem.
So the requirements of the problem are
going to ask us to somehow pull a rabbit
out of the hat and create not
a lazy thunk, but an active thunk.
Okay.
But if we do have an active thunk,
can everybody see why this is
always going to make sure that they
are responded to in the correct order?
There's a couple of options here.
If I run th1 and I print out the text for
one, and then I run th2.
One option is that th2 is already ready
to go, it already has a response.
In which case it's right away
gonna call me with text2,
that's one option,
cuz it already had that one there.
Another option is that it's not yet
got the text2 ready,
which case I'm just gonna keep waiting.
But in either case I know that once
it does fire I do have a text2.
And once I get to th3 there's
only one of two options.
Either th3 is already finished,
in which case when I call it I'm gonna
get the value extracted right away.
Or I'm not gonna get the value
extracted right away but
I'll wait until I do have a value.
So in all possible
combinations this expression,
this nested callback expression,
is going to sequence my output.
And I don't have to worry about any
kind of looping through some array or
object to find stuff.
I know that they're going to be
sequenced correctly as a result.
Does everybody follow me
on that reasoning, okay?
Whether you realize it or not,
that's a huge massive improvement over our
previous, and we didn't invoke any kind
of library or any fancy thing at all.
We're just using functions
in a different way.
This blew me away when I first realized
that this was possible all along.
Why on Earth did I write so many years,
decades of crappy code not realizing
how to use my tools more effectively?
Cuz this is significantly more clean and
understandable.
It's not perfect, but it's way better
than what we wrote in exercise one.
Now that I know that that's
what I need to come up with,
I need to figure out whether
it's even possible to solve.
This silver bullet, this active thunk.
So here's how we're gonna do that.
We're going to observe that there
are two possible cases for every thunk.
First of all we know to be an active thunk
we are going to need to call
the fake AJAX call right away.
Does everybody agree with that?
With the file URL, and
we're going to need to pass it some
callback that gets a response.
That's gonna have to happen right
at the time we call getFile.
If that happens later then we have a lazy
thunk and we've failed our solution, okay.
We also know that a thunk
has to return a function.
And that function needs to receive
only one argument which is
a callback.
>> Kyle: So
everybody understand that reasoning?
So with this setup we have line 24 and
line 28 need to get
bridged together in some way.
Either line 24 is going
to run before line 28,
or line 28 is going to run before line 24.
Those are the only two possible outcomes.
So we need to bridge the two and
we're gonna do that by looking
at both scenarios independently.
So let's imagine for an example that
line 24 runs first, before line 28.
So let's say line 24 has run,
that means we got the response back.
But we have not yet called our thunk.
We're gonna need to hold
onto that response,
does everybody agree with that reasoning?
So here's what I'm gonna do.
I'm going to, in my closure,
have a variable called text.
And what I'm going to
say is text = response.
Now on line 30 now,
which was the previous line 28.
When line 30 runs at a later time, I have
a callback and I have some response text.
So couldn't I just say cb(text).
Does everybody see how I did that?
That's only one of our two scenarios but
I just want you to understand
how we're bridging.
In the one scenario we're
bridging by saving the text and
then passing it into
the callback at a later time.
Okay, now let me back up.
Let's imagine that now instead that it's
line 30 that runs first, before line 26.
So Line 30 gets a callback but
we're not ready to use that callback yet,
are we?
So what if we save it off,
what if we say fn =
cb.
>> Kyle: And
then when this line 26 runs I have
a callback to pass my stuff to, I can just
simply pass response directly into fn.
>> Kyle: Does
everybody see that?
>> Kyle: So in either of
those two scenarios I have a way to bridge
the gap and that bridge is closure.
Now I just need to put those
two solutions together, okay.
So what I'm going to do,
I'll start back at scratch.
What I'm going to do is set up an if
statement to ask for these two conditions.
So on line 26 what I'm going
to ask is if fn has been set.
Then I know that the other one
has been called first, right,
cuz that's the only way it gets set.
Which means I can simply call it
right away with what I just got.
If fn has not been set,
I need to save the response.
>> Kyle: Down here,
we're gonna do the reverse if logic.
If the text has been set, then I know
I can just go ahead and send it to cb.
Otherwise, I need to save off my callback.
>> Kyle: Few of you had that.
I had that mine exploding like [SOUND].
What?
How has this been around and
I just never even knew it?
Why didn't anybody ever teach me
this in all my years of JavaScript?
I don't need some library.
I just need to know how to better
use the tools I already have.
>> Kyle: I've looked, and looked,
and looked for a name for this pattern of
bridging the closure of these two states.
And really, I've asked functional
programming developers and
other people what do I call this pattern?
Nobody has any good name for it.
So I just call it active versus passive,
or active versus lazy thunks.
Cuz I don't have any better term for it.
But when I discovered
this a few years ago,
I started using it all over the place.
And in fact, I realized I'd already kind
of fumbled upon that solution before
in some of my earlier libraries.
Because I needed something like
a promise before I had promises.
And I had accidentally stumbled upon
something kind of like this in the past.
And then I realized, wow, that's actually
a pattern I use all over place inside of
the various libraries there, right.
>> Kyle: So
it's a more effective way
of using the callbacks and
closures that we already
have in the language.
And again, the take away.
We have completely factored time
as a state out of the equation.
We don't have to worry about it.
We set this code up once,
this is like plumbing.
This is the program code that we write
over, and over, and over, and over again.
And this is the part where we
don't have to worry about time.
Cuz that part's already
been taken care of for us.
So it makes our code fundamentally
easier to reason about.
>> Kyle: Okay,
so
>> Kyle: that's thunks.
The next step, when we get back together,
is to understand how promises
add on to that pattern and
give us even more of a solution.
Promises are not a replacement for thunks.
Cuz inside of my libraries that I'm making
thunks, I mean that I'm making promises,
I use thunks.
Thunks are things that you can use,
it's a very lightweight way of solving
asynchronous sequencing issues.
Without having to invoke some
huge library or some crazy API or
something like that, it's a very
lightweight, easy way of doing it.
It's gonna take some practice to
wrap your brain around that pattern,
it took me quite a bit of practice.
Would highly encourage you between now and
the next time we get together for
this workshop,
spend some time going back over that.
Try that from blank file and
see if you can recreate that same
reasoning that I just recreated.
It'll make our exploration of promises
a lot more fruitful for you if you do.